# Busy Bees - Game Development Shmup Project 

Don't worry, BEE happy! But also BEE careful...

When originally thinking about what kind of game I wanted to design, I thought about the types of games I like to play that require any kind of shooting mechanic. As sometimes Shmups tend to make me a little stressed out as I aggressively push a firing button, I considered theme designs that would be lighthearted and colorful. I really like bees and I absolutely do not like wasps and so my game, 'Busy Bees', was made.

Live your lifelong dream (maybe) of BEE-coming a beekeeper and protecting a honey house from the evil, invading, pesky wasps. But while shooting darts, BEE careful not to hit the bees! If you do, use your trusty smoking gun to calm them down. Collect flowers to increase your honey-health in case you get stung by bees or wasps. Defend your bee house and foster a happy hive!

A lot of my game mechanics while interesting in design were meant to reflect the physical relationships of bees, wasps, people (a beekeeper), and flowers. Bees usually mind their own business until they feel threatened. If a person were to hurt a hive of bees, there would be a whole swarm after the person. Wasps on the other hand will sting people regardless of their temperament. Wasps also can invade bee homes to eat honey. Flowers make people happy (usually) and provide pollen for bees. From there I was able to devise the game relationship between the different game sprites. If the beekeeper player accidentally shoots a bee while defending the bee house from wasps, the bees will turn on the player. The player must then (like in real beekeeping professions) use a smoke gun to calm the bees down. If the player is hit by a hornet at any time, the player will lose health (honey). If the wasp gets to the beehive, honey is lost. If an angry bee stings the player, the player also loses health. Bees can pick pollen from flowers, making the flowers disappear in the game. But a player can also pick flowers, increasing their honey health. Since wasps sting and live, you can only kill them with darts. But if a bee stings you, it dies. 

The game incorporates a point and shoot, rotating the player around the scene. My two main mechanics incorporate the switching of different projectiles (smoke gun and dart gun) as well as the mechanic of keeping wasps away. I also have the mechanic of hitting a bee and the bees turning on the player. The bees will chase the player until he/she fires their smoke gun at the bees. This offers a challenge to not only not hit the bees, but if the bees are hit, the player is unable to fight the wasps as effectively. This can make the player honey-health drop drastically. There is a bit of the bullet-hell idea as well when the bees turn on the player. 

This was a really challenging game to produce. I created all of the visual elements as I wanted a specific aesthetic and color cohesion for my project. There were definitely some difficulties when making the darts fire correctly, adding the animated visuals, and changing the health to all the varying factors. There was a lot of script overlapping, so understanding that the coding process was crucial to making the game objects connect. Some tutorials on understanding point and shoot programming and fixing bugs in my code are included as links in the script. 
